you
then God said
arise go up to Bethel and dwell there
and make an altar there to God who
appeared to you when you fled from the
face of Esau your brother and Jacob said
to his household and to all who were
with him put away the foreign gods that
are among you purify yourselves and
change your garments then let us arise
and go up to Bethel and I will make an
altar there to God who answered me in
the day of my distress and has been with
me in the way which I have gone so they
gave Jacob all the foreign gods which
were in their hands and the earrings
which were in their ears and Jacob hid
them under the terebinth truth which was
by Shechem and they journeyed and the
terror of God was upon the cities that
were all around them and they did not
pursue the sons of Jacob so Jacob
came to Las that is Bethel which is in
the land of Canaan he and all the people
who were with him and he built an altar
there and called the place el Bethel
because their God appeared to him when
he fled from the face of his brother now
Deborah Rebecca's nurse died and she was
buried below Bethel under the terebinth
tree so the name of it was called Alan
bhagath then God appeared to Jacob again
when he came from Paden era and blessed
him your name is Jacob your name shall
not be called Jacob anymore but Israel
shall be your name
so he called his name Israel I am God
Almighty be fruitful and multiply a
nation and a company of nations shall
proceed from you and Kings shall come
from your body the land which I gave
Abraham and Isaac I give to you and to
your descendants after you I give this
land
but God went up from him in the place
where he talked with you so Jacob set up
a pillar in the place where he talked
with him a pillar of stone and he poured
a drink offering on it and he poured oil
on it and Jacob called the name of the
place where God spoke with him Bethel
then they journeyed from Bethel
and when there was but a little distance
to go to e froth Rachel laboured in
childbirth and she had hard labor now it
came to pass when she was in hard labor
that the midwife said to her do not fear
you will have this son also and so it
was as her soul was departing for she
died that she called his name Ben own
eye but his father called him Benjamin
so Rachel died and was buried on the way
to Ethan that is Bethlehem and Jacob set
a pillow on her grave which is the
pillar of Rachel's grave to this day
then Israel journeyed and pitched his
tent beyond the Tower of EDA
and it happened when Israel dwelt in
that land that reuben went and lay with
Bilhah his father's concubine and Israel
heard about it now the sons of Jacob
were twelve four sons of Leah were
reuben Jacob's firstborn and Simeon Levi
Judah Issachar and Zebulun the sons of
Rachel were Joseph and Benjamin the sons
of Bilhah Rachel's maidservant were Dan
and Naphtali
and the sons of Zilpah Leah's
maidservant were gad and ashur these
were the sons of Jacob who were born to
him in Paden
Aran when Jacob came to his father Isaac
at Mamre or Kier jith odda that is
Hebron where Abraham and Isaac had dwelt
now the days of Isaac were 180 years so
Isaac breathed his last and died and was
gathered to his people being old and
full of days and his sons Esau and Jacob
buried